# CMPE250 - Algorithms and Data Structures - Fall 2022 - Project 3

<table>
  <tr>
    <th colspan="3">
        People
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Instuctor</td>
    <td>Özlem Durmaz İncel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Teaching Assistants</td>
    <td>Suzan Ece Ada <br> Barış Yamansavaçılar</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Student Assistants</td>
    <td>Bahadır Gezer <br> Batuhan Çelik <br> Zeynep Buse Aydın <br> Ömer Faruk Ünal </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Encore Airlines

src/
├── main
│   └── java
│       ├── Project3.java
│       ├── entities
│       │   ├── Airport.java
│       │   └── Flight.java
│       ├── enums
│       │   ├── ProcessorStatus.java
│       │   └── State.java
│       └── processors
│           ├── ACC.java
│           └── ATC.java
└── resources
├── codes.py
├── data
│   ├── airport_codes.json
│   └── atc_codes.json
├── input.py
└── inputs



[//]: # (#### Check the [description]&#40;./desc/p1_description.pdf&#41; to try out this project. )

### Implementation Notes


Pre-computation phase: Find the connected airport components and add an ATC to each component.

    Discrete Event Simulation phase: Simulate the arrival and departure of flights. Compute this phase
    until all flights have landed. ATC will have to do the procedures, and it should implement some type of
    job scheduling, "round-robin" might be the best option.

    Some flights might be emergencies. These will produce an "interrupt" and start computing right away.

    Hashing: 

    Post-computation phase: Compute the average wait time for each flight.

    Output: Print the average wait time for each flight.



### ACC - Area Control Center

    ACC scheduling -> Round Robin
    ACC states:
            -new
            -ready
            -running
            -waiting
            -terminated

    created:            new     -> ready
    dispatch:           ready   -> running
    interrupt:          running -> ready
    wait:               running -> waiting
    exit:               running -> terminated
    wait completion:    waiting -> ready

    created -> new Flight input: adds the Flight into correct ACC ready queue
        ready: waiting for dispatch, in the correct ACC ready queue

    dispatch -> start processing flight and block ACC
        running: check for clearances, flight plan, flight information, etc.

    interrupt -> scheduling interrupt and unblock ACC

    wait -> pass operation to *departing* ATC and wait for output, and unblock ACC

    wait -> pass operation to *landing* ATC and wait for output, and unblock ACC

    wait -> ask plane for flight details, wait for output, and unblock ACC

    exit -> remove flight from the cycle. Unblock ACC.
        terminated: flight operations are complete.

    wait completion -> reenter ready queue.

### ATC - Air Traffic Control

    ATC scheduling -> multilevel feedback queue
    ATC states:
            -new
            -ready
            -running
            -waiting
            -terminated

    created:           new     -> ready
    dispatch:          ready   -> running
    interrupt:         running -> ready
    wait:              running -> waiting
    exit:              running -> terminated
    wait completion:   waiting -> ready

    created -> new Flight input: adds the Flight into correct ACC ready queue
        ready: waiting for dispatch, in the correct ACC ready queue

    dispatch -> start processing flight and block ATC
        running:
            for landings [get control / landing information, (landing wait), taxi/gate information, (taxi wait),
            disembark/baggage information processing, (disembark/baggage), all successful/wrap up and end communication],

            for departures [get control / boarding/ baggage, (boarding / baggage wait), takeoff information / flight
            plan, (affirmative wait), taxi information, (pushback / taxi wait), ready / waiting to be cleared for
            takeoff, (takeoff), all successful/wrap up and end communication/ pass back to AAC]

    interrupt -> scheduling interrupt and unblock ATC
    interrupt -> mayday, emergency, etc.

    wait -> specified above, and unblock ATC]

    exit -> remove flight from the cycle. Unblock ATC.
        terminated: flight operations are complete.

    wait completion -> reenter ready queue.

#### Additional

    ACC codes are 4 capital letters, airport codes are 3 capital letters. Both are unique.
    ATC codes start with 4 capital letters (which are the ACC code for that ATC), followed by a two digit number.
    The two digit number is generated by the ACC using hashing. The ATC code is unique.

    ATC and airports are mapped one-to-one. Each airport has one ATC, and each ATC is responsible for one airport.
    ACC's are one-to-many mapped to ATC's. Each ACC is responsible for one or more ATC's. 
    